=head1 NAME

bacula-backup-mysql - A hook for Bacula to backup mysql databases using mysqlhotcopy or mysqldump.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  Job {
    Name = "example.org-mysql"
    ...
    # This prepares the backup
    Client Run Before Job = "/usr/sbin/bacula-backup-mysql"
    # This deletes the copy of the catalog
    Client Run After Job = "/usr/sbin/bacula-backup-mysql -cleanup"
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a script to be setup as C<Client Run Before Job> in Bacula.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Config starts with C<E<lt>clustersE<gt>> block, which you can define several
database instances to be backed up.

Each C<cluster> should define connection dsn and databases to be backed up.

To define connection dsn, you can also define common options in
C<E<lt>clientE<gt>> section, those options would be shared for each cluster
which has not overriden the specific option.

In C<E<lt>clusterE<gt>> sections, you should list databases to be
backed up. You can use C<include_database> options to explicitly list
which databases should be backed up, and C<exclude_database> options
to explicitly list those that should not.

Additionally C<include_database> supports table regexp, which is passed
directly to L<mysqlhotcopy(1)>. This allows you to include or exclude tables from
each database backup.

Unless you only specify C<include_database> options, all databases
which can be seen with a C<show tables> query are considered for
backup; any C<exclude_database> options will reduce this list.

Since v0.6 it's possible to do SQL dump backups with L<mysqldump(1)>. Use this if you want to backup InnoDB databases.
Option name is C<dump_type>, which takes values C<mysqlhotcopy> (default) and C<mysqldump>.

Since v0.7 you can pass arbitary options to C<mysqlhotcopy> or C<mysqldump>
using C<mysqlhotcopy_options> or C<mysqldump_options> respectively. Use this to
pass options like C<--old_server>.

Ordinarily, using C<include_database> and C<exclude database> options
in the same C<cluster> cause the C<include_database> option to be
unnecessary, as the existence of any C<exclude_database> options implicitly
includes all available databases obtained from C<show databases>.
However, when using a C<dump_type> of C<mysqlhotcopy>, the
C<include_database> option can be further configured to specify the
exact tables to be backed up, giving the user far more control over
the process.

Dump type C<mysqlhotcopy> allows you to pass C<--record_log_pos log-pos-table>
option to C<mysqlhotcopy>. The C<log-pos-table> table must already exist, see
C<perldoc mysqlhotcopy> for the table schema. Please note that this option is
not safe to use when backing up more than one database, because current
operation backs up each database with separate C<mysqlhotcopy> call and so the
log pos is saved with each call overwriting the previous.

=head1 EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION

  # clusters to backup
  # there is nothing special about name "mysql", name just picked as convience
  <clusters>
    cluster mysql
    cluster eventum
    cluster forums
    cluster selected_dbs
  </clusters>

  # client connection parameters, can be overriden per cluster
  <client>
    user mysql
    password secret
  </client>

  # global options, can be overriden per cluster
  <options>
    tmpdir /srv/bacula/tmp
    outdir /srv/bacula/mysql
  </options>

  # mysql cluster: backup all but mysql database
  <cluster mysql>
    socket /var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock
    exclude_database mysql
  </cluster>

  # forums cluster: exclude phorum_forums and phorum_users tables
  <cluster forums>
    user mysql
    socket /var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock

    # include_database can also support table regexp for mysqlhotcopy:
    include_database teensForum5./~(phorum_forums|phorum_users)/
  </cluster>

  # selected_dbs cluster: backup all except mysql, and be specific about tables
  # in the teensForum5 database
  <cluster selected_dbs>
    socket /var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock
    exclude_database mysql

    # can be specific about tables when using mysqlhotcopy:
    include_database teensForum5./~(phorum_forums|phorum_users)/
  </cluster>

=head1 BUGS

If you find bugs in L<bacula-backup-mysql(1)>,
file the reports into L<Bugtracker|https://github.com/glensc/bacula-backup-mysql/issues>
or even better, send L<Pull Request|https://github.com/glensc/bacula-backup-mysql/pulls> with a fix.

There are also bugs in L<mysqlhotcopy(1)>,
see from L<Wiki|https://github.com/glensc/bacula-backup-mysql/wiki>
if your version nees patching.

In C<mysqlhotcopy> mode C<record_log_pos> option is useless if cluster contains
more than one database.

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2009-2012, Elan RuusamE<auml>e <glen@delfi.ee>

=head1 SEE ALSO

http://www.bacula.org/,
L<Bacula wiki: Application specific backups: mysql|http://wiki.bacula.org/doku.php?id=application_specific_backups:mysql>

=cut
